Bylaws - HacDC Wiki

http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php?title=Bylaws&pri...

Bylaws
From HacDC Wiki
MainTopics > HacDC Info > HacDC Docs

Contents
1 Article I: Why We Exist
1.1 Section 1: General Purposes
1.2 Section 2: Speciﬁc Purposes
2 Article II: Who We Are
2.1 Section 1: Designation of Membership Class
2.2 Section 2: Voting Membership Class Qualiﬁcations
2.3 Section 3: Voting Membership Class Election
2.4 Section 4: Voting Membership Dues
2.5 Section 5: Voting Membership Rights and Responsibilities
2.6 Section 6: Voting Membership Resignation and Termination
3 Article III: How we meet
3.1 Section 1: Regular Meetings
3.2 Section 2: Annual Meetings
3.3 Section 3: Special Meetings
3.4 Section 4: Quorum
3.5 Section 5: Voting
3.6 Section 6: Conduct of Meetings
4 Article IV: The Oﬀicers
4.1 Section 1: Role, Number, Qualiﬁcation, Term and Compensation
4.2 Section 2: Duties of the President
4.3 Section 3: Duties of the Vice President
4.4 Section 4: Duties of the Secretary
4.5 Section 5: Duties of the Treasurer
4.6 Section 6: Duties of the Oﬀicers as whole to provide an Annual
Report
4.7 Section 7: Oﬀicers are Directors
5 Article V: The Board of Directors
5.1 Section 1: Role, Size, Term and Compensation
5.2 Section 2: Meetings
5.3 Section 3: Elections
5.4 Section 4: Quorum
5.5 Section 5: Voting
5.6 Section 6: Resignation, Termination and Vacancies

1 of 7

07/16/2014 07:58 PM

Bylaws - HacDC Wiki

http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php?title=Bylaws&pri...

6 Article VI: Committees
7 Article VII: Amendments
By law, this is the core governing document of HacDC.
Amendments are handled as speciﬁed in Article VII: Amendments
These Bylaws were approved by the incorporators on May 17, 2008 after
consulting with prospective charter members.

Article I: Why We Exist
Section 1: General Purposes
Said corporation is organized exclusively for charitable, educational, and scientiﬁc
purposes within the meaning of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or
the corresponding section of any future federal tax code. The mission of the
corporation is to improve the world by creatively rethinking technology.

Section 2: Speciﬁc Purposes
Subject to and within the limits of Section 1, the corporation shall:
Build and maintain spaces suitable for technical and social collaboration.
Collaborate on all forms of technology, culture and craft in new and
interesting ways.
Apply the results of its work to speciﬁc cultural, educational, charitable and
scientiﬁc causes.
Freely share its research and discoveries, using what is learned to teach
others.
Recruit and develop talented members dedicated to these purposes.

Article II: Who We Are
Section 1: Designation of Membership Class
HacDC has a single membership class with voting rights.

Section 2: Voting Membership Class Qualiﬁcations
Any person who supports the purposes laid out in Article I of these bylaws is
qualiﬁed to become a member.

2 of 7

07/16/2014 07:58 PM

Bylaws - HacDC Wiki

http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php?title=Bylaws&pri...

Section 3: Voting Membership Class Election
The standing rules shall specify procedures for inducting new members. For
purposes of these bylaws, all persons listed as initial directors on the Articles of
Incorporation shall be considered the initial voting members.

Section 4: Voting Membership Dues
The amount, payment period, due date and acceptable methods for collection of
dues shall be reviewed each year at the annual meeting, and shall be speciﬁed in
the standing rules.

Section 5: Voting Membership Rights and Responsibilities
Each voting member shall have an equal right to voice their opinion and vote their
preference or abstain from voting in the aﬀairs of the corporation. Each voting
member shall exercise only one vote for each decision before the corporation.
Each voting member shall have reasonable inspection rights of corporate records.
Each voting member shall be responsible for timely payment of dues, providing
their current address, contact information, and preference for electronic receipt of
communications. Each voting member is responsible for continuing to support the
purposes of the corporation.

Section 6: Voting Membership Resignation and Termination
Any voting member may resign by ﬁling a resignation with any Minister.
Resignation shall not relieve a voting member of unpaid dues or other monies
owed. Voting membership shall be suspended for non-payment of dues by the
Treasurer after a period of three (3) months. Any suspended voting member may
restore their membership as shall be speciﬁed in the standing rules. Voting
membership may also be terminated for any reason by written petition signed by
more than three quarters (3/4ths) of the voting members.

Article III: How we meet
Section 1: Regular Meetings
Regular meetings of voting members shall be held as designated in the standing
rules.

Section 2: Annual Meetings
An annual meeting of all members shall take place sometime in January, February
or March. The President shall select the date, time and place no later than January
3 of 7

07/16/2014 07:58 PM

Bylaws - HacDC Wiki

http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php?title=Bylaws&pri...

31 of each year. The date, time and place of the annual meeting must be posted in
the registered oﬀice and submitted to members electronically at least two weeks
prior to the annual meeting. A petition signed by more than three quarters
(3/4ths) of voting members and submitted to the Board of Directors before
Valentine's Day may specify a new date, time and place for the annual meeting. At
the annual meeting, the voting members shall elect the Board of Directors, review
and vote on the standing rules and policies of the corporation, receive reports on
the activities of the corporation, approve the budget and determine the direction
of the corporation in the coming year.

Section 3: Special Meetings
A petition presented to all voting members and approved by one half (1/2) of
voting members may call a special meeting. Such a petition must include the date,
time, place and agenda of the special meeting. Notiﬁcation of the result of the
petition shall be presented to all members prior to the meeting.

Section 4: Quorum
At a duly called meeting, at least 25% (one quarter) of the entire voting
membership shall constitute a quorum.
This value was lowered from 50% by Bylaws Amendment 1: Revise Quorum.

Section 5: Voting
When a quorum is present, all issues, except when otherwise speciﬁed in these
bylaws, shall be decided by aﬀirmative vote of more than 50% (one half) of the
voting members present.

Section 6: Conduct of Meetings
The conduct of all meetings shall follow the rules of order as speciﬁed in the
standing rules.

Article IV: The Oﬀicers
Section 1: Role, Number, Qualiﬁcation, Term and Compensation
There shall be four oﬀicers, a President, a Vice President, a Secretary and a
Treasurer. Each oﬀicer must be a voting member and each oﬀicer shall serve from
the time of their election until their successor is elected and qualiﬁes. No oﬀicer
may serve more than 3 consecutive terms. No oﬀicer shall be compensated for
their service as an oﬀicer, though the corporation may provide insurance and

4 of 7

07/16/2014 07:58 PM

Bylaws - HacDC Wiki

http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php?title=Bylaws&pri...

indemnity for oﬀicers as allowed by law.

Section 2: Duties of the President
The President shall preside over all meetings or designate an alternate, attempt to
achieve consensus in all decision-making, ensure the membership is informed of
all relevant issues, and serve other duties of a President as required by law or
custom.

Section 3: Duties of the Vice President
The Vice President shall be primarily responsible for the information systems and
communication processes of the corporation and serve all other duties of a Vice
President as required by law or custom, including acting when the President is
unable or unwilling to act.

Section 4: Duties of the Secretary
The Secretary shall be responsible for maintaining membership and corporate
records and for serving all other duties of a Secretary as required by law or
custom.

Section 5: Duties of the Treasurer
The Treasurer shall serve as custodian of corporate funds, collect dues, present a
ﬁnancial report at each regular and annual meeting, assist in the preparation of
the budget, make ﬁnancial information available to members and the public, and
serve all other duties of a Treasurer as required by law or custom.

Section 6: Duties of the Oﬀicers as whole to provide an Annual
Report
The Oﬀicers must provide an annual report. The report shall chronicle the
activities of the corporation, including speciﬁc narratives on the corporation's
work, the corporation's annual ﬁnancial statements, relevant legal ﬁlings, and
relevant copies of the organization's district and federal tax returns.

Section 7: Oﬀicers are Directors
The Oﬀicers shall also serve as bona-ﬁde directors on the Board of Directors.
Election, resignation, removal and vacancies of the Oﬀicers are handled in
accordance with procedures laid out in Article V.

Article V: The Board of Directors
5 of 7

07/16/2014 07:58 PM

Bylaws - HacDC Wiki

http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php?title=Bylaws&pri...

Section 1: Role, Size, Term and Compensation
The board of directors shall consist of the four Oﬀicers as deﬁned in Article IV and
two at-large directors, all of whom are considered directors for the purposes of
this article. All directors must be voting members of the corporation. Each
director shall serve from the time of their election until their successor is elected
and qualiﬁes. No member may serve more than 3 consecutive terms on the board
of directors. No director may be compensated for their service as a board member,
though the corporation may provide insurance and indemnity for board members
as allowed by law.

Section 2: Meetings
The Board of Directors shall meet when necessary, provided all voting members
receive notice sent electronically at least ﬁve business days prior to the meeting.
All voting members may attend a meeting of the board of directors. The notice
shall give the time, place, reason for calling the meeting and the agenda for said
meeting. Notices shall be conspicuously posted at the registered oﬀice and
electronically distributed to all members at least ﬁve business days prior to a
meeting. Minutes shall follow the standing rules for meetings as approved at an
annual meeting. Minutes of each board meeting shall be conspicuously posted at
the registered oﬀice and electronically distributed to members within 48 hours.
Minutes shall be considered approved when signed by all board members in
attendance.

Section 3: Elections
Each member present shall be given an opportunity to be a candidate for each
oﬀicer position and each at-large director position on the board. If there is more
than one candidate for an oﬀicer position, the candidate which obtains the highest
number votes from voting members present shall be elected. In the event of a tie,
the election is decided by coin ﬂip. If there are no candidates for an oﬀicer
position, the outgoing oﬀiceholder may, if eligible, elect to serve another term. If
more than two members are candidates for at-large director, each voting member
present shall rank the candidates. The two candidates obtaining the highest
preferences from voting members present shall be elected.

Section 4: Quorum
Two-thirds of board members at a duly called board member meeting shall
constitute a quorum.

Section 5: Voting
All issues, except when otherwise speciﬁed in these bylaws, shall be decided by
6 of 7

07/16/2014 07:58 PM

Bylaws - HacDC Wiki

http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php?title=Bylaws&pri...

aﬀirmative vote of more than half of the directors present at a duly held meeting.

Section 6: Resignation, Termination and Vacancies
Any oﬀicer or director may resign by ﬁling a written or electronic resignation with
the Secretary or two other board members. An oﬀicer or at-large director may be
terminated in their role by written petition signed by more than two-thirds
(2/3rds) of the voting membership. Vacancies on the board shall be ﬁlled at the
next regular meeting using the applicable process outlined in Section 3.

Article VI: Committees
On or before September 30, the members shall nominate and approve an audit
committee consisting of three voting members who are not members of the board
of directors and have not served as a director for 180 days prior to appointment.
The audit committee shall have full inspection rights to the aﬀairs and
documentation of the corporation. No audit committee shall be convened if the
corporation has fewer than nine voting members.

Article VII: Amendments
These bylaws may be amended only when an amendment proposal petition is
approved at a membership meeting and signed by more than three quarters
(3/4ths) of voting members. Notice of such petition must be submitted
electronically to all members.
Retrieved from "http://wiki.hacdc.org/index.php?title=Bylaws&oldid=9167"
This page was last modiﬁed on 8 April 2013, at 08:28.
Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL).

7 of 7

07/16/2014 07:58 PM

